docs/other/resources.md, before:


# PySceneDetect in Literature

PySceneDetect is a useful tool for statistical analysis of video.  Below are links to various research articles/papers which have either used PySceneDetect as a part of their analysis, or propose more accurate detection algorithms using the current implementation as a comparison.

 - [Online Detection of Action Start in Untrimmed, Streaming Videos](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1802.06822) by Zheng Shou, Junting Pan, Jonathan Chan, Kazuyuki Miyazawa, Hassan Mansour, Anthony Vetro, Xavi Gir-i-Nieto, Shih-Fu Chang

 - [Story Understanding in Video Advertisements](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1807.11122) by Keren Ye, Kyle Buettner, Adriana Kovashka

 - [NLP-Enriched Automatic Video Segmentation](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8525880/) by Mohannad AlMousa, Rachid Benlamri, Richard Khoury

This list is only provided for academic and research purposes, and is far from an exhaustive source of the uses of PySceneDetect in literature.  If you think a particular submission is relevant and should be added to this list, feel free to [raise an issue](https://github.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect/issues/new/choose) with your suggestion.  Publically available material is preferred, although not a requirement.


# Scene Detection Methodology

Coming soon.  For now, see [Issue #62: Reference of paper for the methods used](https://github.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect/issues/62) on Github for details.

Commit message:

Update contributors and external resources with @mhashim6's project.
Part of #5.  :)

docs/other/resources.md, after:


# PySceneDetect in Literature

PySceneDetect is a useful tool for statistical analysis of video.  Below are links to various research articles/papers which have either used PySceneDetect as a part of their analysis, or propose more accurate detection algorithms using the current implementation as a comparison.

 - [Online Detection of Action Start in Untrimmed, Streaming Videos](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1802.06822) by Zheng Shou, Junting Pan, Jonathan Chan, Kazuyuki Miyazawa, Hassan Mansour, Anthony Vetro, Xavi Gir-i-Nieto, Shih-Fu Chang

 - [Story Understanding in Video Advertisements](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1807.11122) by Keren Ye, Kyle Buettner, Adriana Kovashka

 - [NLP-Enriched Automatic Video Segmentation](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8525880/) by Mohannad AlMousa, Rachid Benlamri, Richard Khoury

 - Thesis Project: [Smart Shades and Cane for The Blind](https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/blind-people-dont-have-good-muhammad-hashim-1f/) by Muhammad Hashim

This list is only provided for academic and research purposes, and is far from an exhaustive source of the uses of PySceneDetect in literature.  If you think a particular submission is relevant and should be added to this list, feel free to [raise an issue](https://github.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect/issues/new/choose) with your suggestion.  Publically available material is preferred, although not a requirement.


# Scene Detection Methodology

Coming soon.  For now, see [Issue #62: Reference of paper for the methods used](https://github.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect/issues/62) on Github for details.
