docs/cli/global_options.rst, before:


***********************************************************************
``scenedetect`` 🎬 Application
***********************************************************************

=======================================================================
Quickstart
=======================================================================

Split the input video wherever a new scene is detected:

    ``scenedetect -i video.mp4 detect-content split-video``

Print a table of detected scenes to the terminal, and save an image at the start, middle, and end frame of each scene:

    ``scenedetect -i video.mp4 detect-content list-scenes -n save-images``

Skip the first 10 seconds of the input video:

    ``scenedetect -i video.mp4 time -s 10s detect-content``

Show summary of all options and commands:

    ``scenedetect help``


=======================================================================
Overview
=======================================================================

PySceneDetect is used by specifying a detector and some commands to process a video with:

    ``scenedetect -i video.mp4 [detectors] [commands]``

Global options (e.g. `--input`, `--config`) must be specified before any commands. The order of commands is not strict, but each command should only be specified once. Detectors and commands can also have options:

    ``scenedetect -i video.mp4 detect-content -t 30 list-scenes -n``

You can use `help [command]` where `[command]` is a specific command or detection algorithm (e.g. `scenedetect help detect-content` or `scenedetect help split-video`). To show the complete help reference for the program you can run:

    ``scenedetect help all``


=======================================================================
System Dependencies
=======================================================================

If you are having trouble running PySceneDetect, check installed software dependencies with:

    ``scenedetect version --all``

Please include this information when submitting bug reports.


=======================================================================
Global Options
=======================================================================

The ``scenedetect`` command takes the following global options:


  -i, --input VIDEO             [Required] Input video file. Also supports
                                image sequences and URLs.

  -o, --output DIR              Output directory for created files (stats
                                file, output videos, images, etc...). If not
                                set defaults to working directory. Some
                                commands allow overriding this value.

  -c, --config FILE             Path to config file. If not set, tries to load
                                one from a location based on your operating system.
                                Type `scenedetect help` and this option will show
                                the correct path on your system.

  -s, --stats CSV               Stats file (.csv) path to write frame metrics. If
                                the file exists, existing metrics will be overwritten.
                                Can be used to find optimal detector options or for data analysis.

  -f, --framerate FPS           Force framerate, in frames/sec (e.g. -f
                                29.97). Disables check to ensure that all
                                input videos have the same framerates.

  -m, --min-scene-len TIMECODE  Minimum length of any scene. TIMECODE can be
                                specified as exact number of frames, a time in
                                seconds followed by s, or a timecode in the
                                format HH:MM:SS or HH:MM:SS.nnn. [default:
                                0.6s]

  --drop-short-scenes           Drop scenes shorter than `--min-scene-len`
                                instead of combining them with neighbors.

  --merge-last-scene            Merge last scene with previous if shorter than
                                `--min-scene-len`.

  -b, --backend BACKEND         Name of backend to use for video input. Some
                                backends require certain dependencies to be
                                available before they can be used. Options
                                are `opencv`, `pyav`, `moviepy`. [default: `opencv`]

  -d, --downscale N             Integer factor to downscale video by (e.g. 2, 3, 4...)
                                before processing. Frame is scaled to width/N x height/N.
                                Leave unset for automatic downscaling based on resolution.
                                Set to 1 to disable downscaling. [default: auto]

  -fs, --frame-skip N           Skips N frames during processing (-fs 1 skips
                                every other frame, processing 50% of the
                                video, -fs 2 processes 33% of the frames, -fs
                                3 processes 25%, etc...). Reduces processing
                                speed at expense of accuracy. [default: 0]

  -v, --verbosity LEVEL         Level of debug/info/error information to show.
                                Must be one of: debug, info, warning, error,
                                none. Overrides `-q`/`--quiet`. Use `-v debug`
                                for bug reports. [default: info]

  -l, --logfile LOG             Path to log file for writing application
                                logging information, mainly for debugging. Set
                                `-v debug` as well if you are submitting a bug
                                report. If verbosity is none, logfile is still
                                be generated with info-level verbosity.

  -q, --quiet                   Suppresses all output of PySceneDetect to the
                                terminal/stdout. Equivalent to `-v none`.

Commit message:

[cli] Add default-detector option to config file.

docs/cli/global_options.rst, after:


***********************************************************************
``scenedetect`` 🎬 Application
***********************************************************************

=======================================================================
Quickstart
=======================================================================

Split the input video wherever a new scene is detected:

    ``scenedetect -i video.mp4 split-video``

Save scene list in CSV format with images at the start, middle, and end of each scene:

    ``scenedetect -i video.mp4 list-scenes save-images``

Skip the first 10 seconds of the input video:

    ``scenedetect -i video.mp4 time --start 10s detect-content``

Show summary of all options and commands:

    ``scenedetect help``


=======================================================================
Overview
=======================================================================

PySceneDetect is used by specifying a detector and some commands to process a video with:

    ``scenedetect -i video.mp4 [detectors] [commands]``

Global options (e.g. `--input`, `--config`) must be specified before any commands. The order of commands is not strict, but each command should only be specified once. Detectors and commands can also have options:

    ``scenedetect -i video.mp4 detect-adaptive -t 30 list-scenes -n``

If a detector is not specified, ``detect-adaptive`` is used. This can be configured using a :ref:`a config file <scenedetect_cli-config_file>`.

You can use `help [command]` where `[command]` is a specific command or detection algorithm (e.g. `scenedetect help detect-content` or `scenedetect help split-video`). To show the complete help reference for the program you can run:

    ``scenedetect help all``


=======================================================================
System Dependencies
=======================================================================

If you are having trouble running PySceneDetect, check installed software dependencies with:

    ``scenedetect version --all``

Please include this information when submitting bug reports.


=======================================================================
Global Options
=======================================================================

The ``scenedetect`` command takes the following global options:


  -i, --input VIDEO             [Required] Input video file. Also supports
                                image sequences and URLs.

  -o, --output DIR              Output directory for created files (stats
                                file, output videos, images, etc...). If not
                                set defaults to working directory. Some
                                commands allow overriding this value.

  -c, --config FILE             Path to config file. If not set, tries to load
                                one from a location based on your operating system.
                                Type `scenedetect help` and this option will show
                                the correct path on your system.

  -s, --stats CSV               Stats file (.csv) path to write frame metrics. If
                                the file exists, existing metrics will be overwritten.
                                Can be used to find optimal detector options or for data analysis.

  -f, --framerate FPS           Force framerate, in frames/sec (e.g. -f
                                29.97). Disables check to ensure that all
                                input videos have the same framerates.

  -m, --min-scene-len TIMECODE  Minimum length of any scene. TIMECODE can be
                                specified as exact number of frames, a time in
                                seconds followed by s, or a timecode in the
                                format HH:MM:SS or HH:MM:SS.nnn. [default:
                                0.6s]

  --drop-short-scenes           Drop scenes shorter than `--min-scene-len`
                                instead of combining them with neighbors.

  --merge-last-scene            Merge last scene with previous if shorter than
                                `--min-scene-len`.

  -b, --backend BACKEND         Name of backend to use for video input. Some
                                backends require certain dependencies to be
                                available before they can be used. Options
                                are `opencv`, `pyav`, `moviepy`. [default: `opencv`]

  -d, --downscale N             Integer factor to downscale video by (e.g. 2, 3, 4...)
                                before processing. Frame is scaled to width/N x height/N.
                                Leave unset for automatic downscaling based on resolution.
                                Set to 1 to disable downscaling. [default: auto]

  -fs, --frame-skip N           Skips N frames during processing (-fs 1 skips
                                every other frame, processing 50% of the
                                video, -fs 2 processes 33% of the frames, -fs
                                3 processes 25%, etc...). Reduces processing
                                speed at expense of accuracy. [default: 0]

  -v, --verbosity LEVEL         Level of debug/info/error information to show.
                                Must be one of: debug, info, warning, error,
                                none. Overrides `-q`/`--quiet`. Use `-v debug`
                                for bug reports. [default: info]

  -l, --logfile LOG             Path to log file for writing application
                                logging information, mainly for debugging. Set
                                `-v debug` as well if you are submitting a bug
                                report. If verbosity is none, logfile is still
                                be generated with info-level verbosity.

  -q, --quiet                   Suppresses all output of PySceneDetect to the
                                terminal/stdout. Equivalent to `-v none`.
