website/pages/cli.md, before:


# PySceneDetect CLI

See [the documentation](../docs/stable/) for a complete reference to the `scenedetect` command with more examples.

## Quickstart

In the examples below, if you want to find fast cuts, use `detect-adaptive` or `detect-content`. For fades in/out, use `detect-threshold` instead.

Split input video on each fast cut using `ffmpeg`:

```rst
scenedetect -i video.mp4 detect-adaptive split-video
```

Save some frames from each cut:

```rst
scenedetect -i video.mp4 detect-adaptive save-images
```

Skip the first 10 seconds of the input video:

```rst
scenedetect -i video.mp4 time -s 10s detect-adaptive
```

## Example

As a concrete example to become familiar with PySceneDetect, let's use the following short clip from the James Bond movie, GoldenEye (Copyright &copy; 1995 MGM):

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OMgIPnCnlbQ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OMgIPnCnlbQ)

You can [download the clip from here](https://github.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect/raw/resources/tests/resources/goldeneye/goldeneye.mp4) (may have to right-click and save-as, put the video in your working directory as `goldeneye.mp4`).

Let's split this scene into clips on each fast cut.  This means we need to use content-aware detecton mode (`detect-content`) or adaptive mode (`detect-adaptive`).  If the video instead contains fade-in/fade-out transitions you want to find, you can use `detect-threshold` instead.

Using the following command, let's run PySceneDetect on the video, and also save a scene list CSV file and some images of each scene:

```rst
scenedetect --input goldeneye.mp4 detect-adaptive list-scenes save-images
```

Running the above command, in the working directory, you should see a file `goldeneye.scenes.csv`, as well as individual frames for the start/middle/end of each scene as `goldeneye-XXXX-00/01.jpg`.  The results should appear as follows:


|   Scene #    |  Start Time   |    Preview    |
| ------------ | ------------- | ------------- |
|       1      |  00:00:00.000 | <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect/resources/tests/resources/goldeneye/d-content-t-27/goldeneye-Scene-001-01.jpg" width="480" />  |
|       2      |  00:00:03.754 | <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect/resources/tests/resources/goldeneye/d-content-t-27/goldeneye-Scene-002-01.jpg" width="480" />  |
|       3      |  00:00:08.759 | <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect/resources/tests/resources/goldeneye/d-content-t-27/goldeneye-Scene-003-01.jpg" width="480" />  |
|       4      |  00:00:10.802 | <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect/resources/tests/resources/goldeneye/d-content-t-27/goldeneye-Scene-004-01.jpg" width="480" />  |
|       5      |  00:00:15.599 | <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect/resources/tests/resources/goldeneye/d-content-t-27/goldeneye-Scene-005-01.jpg" width="480" />  |
|       6      |  00:00:27.110 | <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect/resources/tests/resources/goldeneye/d-content-t-27/goldeneye-Scene-006-01.jpg" width="480" />  |
|       7      |  00:00:34.117 | <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect/resources/tests/resources/goldeneye/d-content-t-27/goldeneye-Scene-007-01.jpg" width="480" />  |
|       8      |  00:00:36.536 | <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect/resources/tests/resources/goldeneye/d-content-t-27/goldeneye-Scene-008-01.jpg" width="480" />  |
|      ...     |       ...      |       ...      |
|      18      |  00:01:06.316 | <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect/resources/tests/resources/goldeneye/d-content-t-27/goldeneye-Scene-018-01.jpg" width="480" />  |
|      19      |  00:01:10.779 | <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect/resources/tests/resources/goldeneye/d-content-t-27/goldeneye-Scene-019-01.jpg" width="480" />  |
|      20      |  00:01:18.036 | <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect/resources/tests/resources/goldeneye/d-content-t-27/goldeneye-Scene-020-01.jpg" width="480" />  |
|      21      |  00:01:19.913 | <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect/resources/tests/resources/goldeneye/d-content-t-27/goldeneye-Scene-021-01.jpg" width="480" />  |
|      22      |  00:01:21.999 | <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect/resources/tests/resources/goldeneye/d-content-t-27/goldeneye-Scene-022-01.jpg" width="480" />  |


## Splitting Video into Clips

The `split-video` command can be used to automatically split the input video using `ffmpeg` or `mkvmerge`. For example:

```rst
scenedetect -i goldeneye.mp4 detect-adaptive split-video
```

Type `scenedetect help split-video` for a full list of options which can be specified for video splitting, including high quality mode (`-hq/--high-quality`) or copy mode (`-c/--copy`).

You can also specify `-h` / `--high-quality` to produces near lossless results, or `-p`/`--preset` and `-crf`/`--rate-factor` (call `scenedetect help split-video` for details). If either `-c`/`--copy` or `-m`/`--mkvmerge` is specified, codec copying mode is used, at the expense of frame accurate cuts.  Optionally, you can also specify the x264 `-p`/`--preset` and `-crf`/`--rate-factor` (call `scenedetect help split-video` for details).


## Detection Methods

PySceneDetect can look for fades in/out using `detect-threshold` (comparing each frame to a set black level) or find fast cuts using `detect-content` (compares each frame looking for changes in content). There also is `detect-adaptive`, which uses the same scoring as `detect-content`, but compares the ratio of each frame score to its neighbors.

Each mode has slightly different parameters, and is described in detail below. Most detector parameters can also be [set with a config file](http://scenedetect.com/projects/Manual/en/latest/cli/config_file.html).

In general, use `detect-threshold` mode if you want to detect scene boundaries using fades/cuts in/out to black.  If the video uses a lot of fast cuts between content, and has no well-defined scene boundaries, you should use the `detect-adaptive` or  `detect-content` modes.  Once you know what detection mode to use, you can try the parameters recommended below, or generate a statistics file (using the `-s` / `--stats` flag) in order to determine the correct paramters - specifically, the proper threshold value.


### Content-Aware Detection

Unlike threshold mode, content-aware mode looks at the *difference* between each pair of adjacent frames, triggering a scene break when this difference exceeds the threshold value.  The default threshold value (`-t` / `--threshold`), which is good for a first try when using content-aware mode (`detect-content`), is `30`.  Thus:

```rst
scenedetect -i my_video.mp4 -s my_video.stats.csv list-scenes detect-content
```

Is the equivalent of:

```rst
scenedetect -i my_video.mp4 -s my_video.stats.csv list-scenes detect-content -t 30
```

Remember to supply the `list-scenes` command, after all main program options, to show which scenes were generated, as well as optionally the `save-images` command to save images for each scene, and/or the `split-video` command to split the input video automatically.

The optimal threshold can be determined by generating a stats file (`-s`), opening it with a spreadsheet editor (e.g. Excel), and examining the `content_val` column.  This value should be very small between similar frames, and grow large when a big change in content is noticed (look at the values near frame numbers/times where you know a scene change occurs).  The threshold value should be set so that most scenes fall below the threshold value, and scenes where changes occur should *exceed* the threshold value (thus triggering a scene change).


### Threshold Detection

Threshold-based mode is what most traditional scene detection programs use, which looks at the average intensity of the *current* frame, triggering a scene break when the intensity falls below the threshold (or crosses back upwards).  The default threshold when using the `detect-threshold` is `12` (e.g. `detect-threshold` is the same as `detect-threshold --threshold 12` when the `-t` / `--threshold` option is not supplied), which is a good value to try when detecting fade outs to black on most videos.

```rst
scenedetect -i my_video.mp4 -s my_video.stats.mp4 detect-threshold
```

```rst
scenedetect -i my_video.mp4 -s my_video.stats.mp4 detect-threshold -t 20
```

Using values for threshold less than `8` may cause problems with some videos, especially those encoded at lower bitrates or with limited dynamic range.

The optimal threshold can be determined by generating a statsfile (`-s`), opening it with a spreadsheet editor (e.g. Excel), and examining the `delta_rgb` column.  These values represent the average intensity of the pixels for that particular frame (taken by averaging the R, G, and B values over the whole frame).  The threshold value should be set so that the average intensity of most frames in content scenes lie above the threshold value, and scenes where scene changes/breaks occur should fall *under* the threshold value (thus triggering a scene change).


### Adaptive Detection

The `detect-adaptive` mode compares each frame's score as calculated by `detect-content` with its neighbors. This score is what forms the `adaptive_ratio` metric in the statsfile. You can also configure the amount of neighboring frames via the `frame-window` option, as well as the minimum change in `content_val` score using `min-content-val`.


## Tweaking Detection Parameters

Detectors take a variety of parameters, which can be [configured via command-line](http://scenedetect.com/projects/Manual/en/latest/cli/detectors.html) or by [using a config file](http://scenedetect.com/projects/Manual/en/latest/cli/config_file.html). If the default parameters do not produce correct results, you can generate a stats file using the `-s` / `--stats` option.

For example, with `detect-content`, if the default threshold of `27` does not produce correct results, we can determine the proper threshold by first generating a stats file:

```rst
scenedetect --input goldeneye.mp4 --stats goldeneye.stats.csv detect-adaptive
```

We can then plot the values of the `content_val` column:

<img src="../img/goldeneye-stats.png" alt="goldeneye.mp4 statistics graph" />

The peaks in values correspond to the scene breaks in the input video. In some cases the threshold may need to be raised or lowered accordingly.

## Saving Image Previews of Detected Scenes

PySceneDetect can automatically save the beginning and ending frame of each detected scene by using the `save-images` command.  If present, the first and last frames of each scene will be saved in the current working directory, using the filename of the input video.

Files marked `00` represent the starting frame of the scene, and those marked `01` represent the last frame (e.g. `testvideo.mp4.Scene-4-01.jpg`).  By default, two images are generated.

Coming soon: If more are specified via the `-n` flag, they will start from `00` (the first frame) and be evenly spaced throughout the scene until the last frame, which will be numbered `N-1`.


## Improving Processing Speed/Performance

The following arguments are global program options, and need to be applied before any commands (e.g. `detect-content`, `list-scenes`).  They can be used to achieve performance gains for some source material with a variable loss of accuracy.

Assuming the input video is of a high enough resolution, a significant performance gain can be achieved by sub-sampling (down-scaling) the input image by a specific integer factor (2x, 3x, 4x, 5x...).  This is applied automatically to some degree based on the input video size, but can be overriden manually with the `-d` / `--downscale` option.

This factor represents how many pixels are "skipped" in both the x- and y- directions, effectively down-scaling the image (using nearest-neighbor sampling) by the factor specified (the new resolution being `W/factor x H/factor` if the old resolution is `W x H`).

Another method that can be used to gain a performance boost is frame skipping.  This method, however, severely reduces frame-accurate scene cuts, so it should only be used with high FPS material (ideally > 60 FPS), at low values (try not to exceed a value of `1` or `2` if using `-fs` / `--frame-skip`), in cases where this is acceptable.  Using the frame skip option also disallows the use of a stats file, which offsets the speed gain if the same video needs to be processed multiple times (e.g. to determine the optimal threshold).

The option still remains, however, for the set of cases where it is still required.  For example, if we skip every other frame (e.g. using `--frame-skip 1`), the processing speed should roughly double.

If set too large, enough frames may be skipped each time that the threshold is met during every iteration, continually triggering scene changes.  This is because frame skipping essentially raises the threshold between frames in the same scene (making them more likely to appear as *cuts*) while not affecting the threshold between frames of different scenes.

This makes the two harder to distinguish, and can cause additional false scene cuts to be detected.  While this can be compensated for by raising the threshold value, this increases the probability of missing a real/true scene cut - thus, the use of the `-fs` / `--frame-skip` option is discouraged.


## Seeking, Duration, and Setting Start / Stop Times

Specifying the `time` command allows control over what portion of the video PySceneDetect processes.  The `time` command accepts three options: start time (`-s` / `-start`), end time (`-e` / `-end`), and duration (`-d` / `--duration`).  Specifying both end time and duration is redundant, and in this case, duration overrides end time.  Timecodes can be given in three formats:  exact frame number (e.g. `12345`), number of seconds followed by `s` (e.g. `123s`, `123.45s`), or standard format (HH:MM:SS[.nnn], e.g. `12:34:56`, `12:34:56.789`).

For example, let's say we have a video shot at 30 FPS, and want to analyze only the segment from the 5 to the 6.5 minute mark in the video (we want to analyze the 90 seconds [2700 frames] between 00:05:00 and 00:06:30).  The following commands are all thus equivalent in this regard (assuming we are using the content detector):

```rst
scenedetect -i my_video.mp4 time --start 00:05:00 --end 00:06:30 detect-adaptive
```

```rst
scenedetect -i my_video.mp4 time --start 300s --end 390s detect-adaptive
```

```rst
scenedetect -i my_video.mp4 time --start 300s --duration 90s detect-adaptive
```

```rst
scenedetect -i my_video.mp4 time --start 300s --duration 2700 detect-adaptive
```

This demonstrates the different timecode formats, interchanging end time with duration and vice-versa, and precedence of setting duration over end time.


## Config File

A configuration file path can be specified using the `-c`/`--config` argument. PySceneDetect also looks for a config file named `scenedetect.cfg` in one of the following locations:

 * Windows:
     * `C:/Users/%USERNAME%/AppData/Local/PySceneDetect/scenedetect.cfg`

 * Linux:
     * `~/.config/PySceneDetect/scenedetect.cfg`
     * `$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/scenedetect.cfg`

 * Mac:
     * `~/Library/Preferences/PySceneDetect/scenedetect.cfg`

Run `scenedetect help` to see the exact path on your system which will be used (it will be listed under the help text for the -c/--config option).  You can [click here to download a `scenedetect.cfg` config file](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect/v0.6.1-release/scenedetect.cfg) to use as a template. Note that lines starting with a `#` are comments and will be ignored.  The `scenedetect.cfg` template file is also available in the folder where PySceneDetect is installed.

Specifying a config file path using -c/--config overrides the user config file. Specifying values on the command line will override those values in the config file.

The syntax of a configuration file is:

```
[command]
option_a = value
#comment
option_b = 1
```

### Example

```
[global]
min-scene-len = 0.8s

[detect-content]
threshold = 32
weights = 1.0 0.5 1.0 0.2

[split-video]
preset = slow
rate-factor = 17
# Don't need to use quotes even if filename contains spaces
filename = $VIDEO_NAME-Clip-$SCENE_NUMBER

[save-images]
format = jpeg
quality = 80
num-images = 3
```

See the `scenedetect.cfg` file in the location you installed PySceneDetect or [download it from Github](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect/v0.6.1-release/scenedetect.cfg) for a complete listing of all configuration options.


## <span class="fa fa-keyboard-o"></span>&nbsp; Video Splitting Requirements

PySceneDetect can use either `ffmpeg` or `mkvmerge` to split videos automatically.

By default, when specifying the `split-video` command, `ffmpeg` will be used to split the video.  If the `-c`/`--copy` option is also set (e.g. `split-video --copy`), `mkvmerge` will be used to split the video instead.


### FFmpeg

You can download `ffmpeg` from: [https://ffmpeg.org/download.html](https://ffmpeg.org/download.html)

Note that Linux users should use a package manager (e.g. `sudo apt-get install ffmpeg`). Windows users may require additional steps in order for PySceneDetect to detect `ffmpeg` - see the section Manually Enabling `split-video` Support below for details.


### mkvmerge

You can download and install `mkvmerge` as part of the mkvtoolnix package from:
[https://mkvtoolnix.download/downloads.html](https://mkvtoolnix.download/downloads.html)

Note that Windows users should use the installer/setup, and Linux users should use their system package manager, otherwise PySceneDetect may not be able to find `mkvmerge`.  If this is the case, see the section below to enable support for the `split-video --copy` command manually.


### Enabling `split-video` Support

If PySceneDetect cannot find the respective tool installed on your system, you have three options:

  1. Place the tool in the same location that PySceneDetect is installed (e.g. copy and paste mkvmerge.exe into the same place scenedetect.exe is located).  This is the easiest solution for most users.

  2. Add the directory where you installed ffmpeg/mkvmerge to your system's PATH environment variable, ensuring that you can use the ffmpeg/mkvmerge command from any terminal/command prompt.  This is the best solution for advanced users.

  3. Place the tool in a location already in your system's PATH variable (e.g. C:/Windows).  This is not recommended, but may be the only solution on systems without administrative rights.

Commit message:

[cli] Add default-detector option to config file.

website/pages/cli.md, after:


# PySceneDetect CLI

See [the documentation](../docs/stable/) for a complete reference to the `scenedetect` command with more examples.

## Quickstart

Split input video on each fast cut using `ffmpeg`:

```rst
scenedetect -i video.mp4 split-video
```

Save some frames from each cut:

```rst
scenedetect -i video.mp4 save-images
```

Skip the first 10 seconds of the input video:

```rst
scenedetect -i video.mp4 time -s 10s
```

## Example

As a concrete example to become familiar with PySceneDetect, let's use the following short clip from the James Bond movie, GoldenEye (Copyright &copy; 1995 MGM):

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OMgIPnCnlbQ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OMgIPnCnlbQ)

You can [download the clip from here](https://github.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect/raw/resources/tests/resources/goldeneye/goldeneye.mp4) (right-click and save the video in your working directory as `goldeneye.mp4`).

Let's split this scene into clips on each fast cut. This means we need to use content-aware detecton mode (`detect-content`) or adaptive mode (`detect-adaptive`).  If the video instead contains fade-in/fade-out transitions you want to find, you can use `detect-threshold` instead. If no detector is specified, `detect-adaptive` will be used by default.

Let's first save a scene list in CSV format and generate some images of each scene to check the output:

```rst
scenedetect --input goldeneye.mp4 detect-adaptive list-scenes save-images
```

Running the above command, in the working directory, you should see a file `goldeneye-Scenes.csv`, as well as individual frames for the start/middle/end of each scene starting with `goldeneye-Scene-001-01.jpg`.  The results should appear as follows:


|   Scene #    |  Start Time   |    Preview    |
| ------------ | ------------- | ------------- |
|       1      |  00:00:00.000 | <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect/resources/tests/resources/goldeneye/d-content-t-27/goldeneye-Scene-001-01.jpg" width="480" />  |
|       2      |  00:00:03.754 | <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect/resources/tests/resources/goldeneye/d-content-t-27/goldeneye-Scene-002-01.jpg" width="480" />  |
|       3      |  00:00:08.759 | <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect/resources/tests/resources/goldeneye/d-content-t-27/goldeneye-Scene-003-01.jpg" width="480" />  |
|       4      |  00:00:10.802 | <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect/resources/tests/resources/goldeneye/d-content-t-27/goldeneye-Scene-004-01.jpg" width="480" />  |
|       5      |  00:00:15.599 | <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect/resources/tests/resources/goldeneye/d-content-t-27/goldeneye-Scene-005-01.jpg" width="480" />  |
|       6      |  00:00:27.110 | <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect/resources/tests/resources/goldeneye/d-content-t-27/goldeneye-Scene-006-01.jpg" width="480" />  |
|       7      |  00:00:34.117 | <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect/resources/tests/resources/goldeneye/d-content-t-27/goldeneye-Scene-007-01.jpg" width="480" />  |
|       8      |  00:00:36.536 | <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect/resources/tests/resources/goldeneye/d-content-t-27/goldeneye-Scene-008-01.jpg" width="480" />  |
|      ...     |       ...      |       ...      |
|      18      |  00:01:06.316 | <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect/resources/tests/resources/goldeneye/d-content-t-27/goldeneye-Scene-018-01.jpg" width="480" />  |
|      19      |  00:01:10.779 | <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect/resources/tests/resources/goldeneye/d-content-t-27/goldeneye-Scene-019-01.jpg" width="480" />  |
|      20      |  00:01:18.036 | <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect/resources/tests/resources/goldeneye/d-content-t-27/goldeneye-Scene-020-01.jpg" width="480" />  |
|      21      |  00:01:19.913 | <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect/resources/tests/resources/goldeneye/d-content-t-27/goldeneye-Scene-021-01.jpg" width="480" />  |
|      22      |  00:01:21.999 | <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect/resources/tests/resources/goldeneye/d-content-t-27/goldeneye-Scene-022-01.jpg" width="480" />  |


## Splitting Video into Clips

The `split-video` command can be used to automatically split the input video using `ffmpeg` or `mkvmerge`. For example:

```rst
scenedetect -i goldeneye.mp4 split-video
```

Type `scenedetect help split-video` for a full list of options which can be specified for video splitting, including high quality mode (`-hq/--high-quality`) or copy mode (`-c/--copy`).

You can also specify `-h` / `--high-quality` to produces near lossless results, or `-p`/`--preset` and `-crf`/`--rate-factor` (call `scenedetect help split-video` for details). If either `-c`/`--copy` or `-m`/`--mkvmerge` is specified, codec copying mode is used, at the expense of frame accurate cuts.  Optionally, you can also specify the x264 `-p`/`--preset` and `-crf`/`--rate-factor` (call `scenedetect help split-video` for details).


## Detection Methods

PySceneDetect can look for fades in/out using `detect-threshold` (comparing each frame to a set black level) or find fast cuts using `detect-content` (compares each frame looking for changes in content). There also is `detect-adaptive`, which uses the same scoring as `detect-content`, but compares the ratio of each frame score to its neighbors.

Each mode has slightly different parameters, and is described in detail below. Most detector parameters can also be [set with a config file](http://scenedetect.com/projects/Manual/en/latest/cli/config_file.html).

In general, use `detect-threshold` mode if you want to detect scene boundaries using fades/cuts in/out to black.  If the video uses a lot of fast cuts between content, and has no well-defined scene boundaries, you should use the `detect-adaptive` or  `detect-content` modes.  Once you know what detection mode to use, you can try the parameters recommended below, or generate a statistics file (using the `-s` / `--stats` flag) in order to determine the correct paramters - specifically, the proper threshold value.


### Content-Aware Detection

Unlike threshold mode, content-aware mode looks at the *difference* between each pair of adjacent frames, triggering a scene break when this difference exceeds the threshold value.

The optimal threshold can be determined by generating a stats file (`-s`), opening it with a spreadsheet editor (e.g. Excel), and examining the `content_val` column ([example](../img/goldeneye-stats.png)).  This value should be very small between similar frames, and grow large when a big change in content is noticed (look at the values near frame numbers/times where you know a scene change occurs).  The threshold value should be set so that most scenes fall below the threshold value, and scenes where changes occur should *exceed* the threshold value (thus triggering a scene change).


### Threshold Detection

Threshold-based mode is what most traditional scene detection programs use, which looks at the average intensity of the *current* frame, triggering a scene break when the intensity falls below the threshold (or crosses back upwards).  The default threshold when using the `detect-threshold` is `12` (e.g. `detect-threshold` is the same as `detect-threshold --threshold 12` when the `-t` / `--threshold` option is not supplied), which is a good value to try when detecting fade outs to black on most videos.

```rst
scenedetect -i my_video.mp4 -s my_video.stats.mp4 detect-threshold
```

```rst
scenedetect -i my_video.mp4 -s my_video.stats.mp4 detect-threshold -t 20
```

Using values for threshold less than `8` may cause problems with some videos, especially those encoded at lower bitrates or with limited dynamic range.

The optimal threshold can be determined by generating a statsfile (`-s`), opening it with a spreadsheet editor (e.g. Excel), and examining the `delta_rgb` column.  These values represent the average intensity of the pixels for that particular frame (taken by averaging the R, G, and B values over the whole frame).  The threshold value should be set so that the average intensity of most frames in content scenes lie above the threshold value, and scenes where scene changes/breaks occur should fall *under* the threshold value (thus triggering a scene change).


### Adaptive Detection

The `detect-adaptive` mode compares each frame's score as calculated by `detect-content` with its neighbors. This score is what forms the `adaptive_ratio` metric in the statsfile. You can also configure the amount of neighboring frames via the `frame-window` option, as well as the minimum change in `content_val` score using `min-content-val`.


## Detection Parameters

Detectors take a variety of parameters, which can be [configured via command-line](http://scenedetect.com/projects/Manual/en/latest/cli/detectors.html) or by [using a config file](http://scenedetect.com/projects/Manual/en/latest/cli/config_file.html). If the default parameters do not produce correct results, you can generate a stats file using the `-s` / `--stats` option.

For example, with `detect-content`, if the default threshold of `27` does not produce correct results, we can determine the proper threshold by first generating a stats file:

```rst
scenedetect --input goldeneye.mp4 --stats goldeneye.stats.csv detect-adaptive
```

We can then plot the values of the `content_val` column:

<img src="../img/goldeneye-stats.png" alt="goldeneye.mp4 statistics graph" />

The peaks in values correspond to the scene breaks in the input video. In some cases the threshold may need to be raised or lowered accordingly.

## Saving Image Previews of Detected Scenes

PySceneDetect can automatically save the beginning and ending frame of each detected scene by using the `save-images` command.  If present, the first and last frames of each scene will be saved in the current working directory, using the filename of the input video.

Files marked `00` represent the starting frame of the scene, and those marked `01` represent the last frame (e.g. `testvideo.mp4.Scene-4-01.jpg`).  By default, two images are generated.

Coming soon: If more are specified via the `-n` flag, they will start from `00` (the first frame) and be evenly spaced throughout the scene until the last frame, which will be numbered `N-1`.


## Improving Processing Speed/Performance

The following arguments are global program options, and need to be applied before any commands (e.g. `detect-content`, `list-scenes`).  They can be used to achieve performance gains for some source material with a variable loss of accuracy.

Assuming the input video is of a high enough resolution, a significant performance gain can be achieved by sub-sampling (down-scaling) the input image by a specific integer factor (2x, 3x, 4x, 5x...).  This is applied automatically to some degree based on the input video size, but can be overriden manually with the `-d` / `--downscale` option.

This factor represents how many pixels are "skipped" in both the x- and y- directions, effectively down-scaling the image (using nearest-neighbor sampling) by the factor specified (the new resolution being `W/factor x H/factor` if the old resolution is `W x H`).

Another method that can be used to gain a performance boost is frame skipping.  This method, however, severely reduces frame-accurate scene cuts, so it should only be used with high FPS material (ideally > 60 FPS), at low values (try not to exceed a value of `1` or `2` if using `-fs` / `--frame-skip`), in cases where this is acceptable.  Using the frame skip option also disallows the use of a stats file, which offsets the speed gain if the same video needs to be processed multiple times (e.g. to determine the optimal threshold).

The option still remains, however, for the set of cases where it is still required.  For example, if we skip every other frame (e.g. using `--frame-skip 1`), the processing speed should roughly double.

If set too large, enough frames may be skipped each time that the threshold is met during every iteration, continually triggering scene changes.  This is because frame skipping essentially raises the threshold between frames in the same scene (making them more likely to appear as *cuts*) while not affecting the threshold between frames of different scenes.

This makes the two harder to distinguish, and can cause additional false scene cuts to be detected.  While this can be compensated for by raising the threshold value, this increases the probability of missing a real/true scene cut - thus, the use of the `-fs` / `--frame-skip` option is discouraged.


## Seeking, Duration, and Setting Start / Stop Times

Specifying the `time` command allows control over what portion of the video PySceneDetect processes.  The `time` command accepts three options: start time (`-s` / `-start`), end time (`-e` / `-end`), and duration (`-d` / `--duration`).  Specifying both end time and duration is redundant, and in this case, duration overrides end time.  Timecodes can be given in three formats:  exact frame number (e.g. `12345`), number of seconds followed by `s` (e.g. `123s`, `123.45s`), or standard format (HH:MM:SS[.nnn], e.g. `12:34:56`, `12:34:56.789`).

For example, let's say we have a video shot at 30 FPS, and want to analyze only the segment from the 5 to the 6.5 minute mark in the video (we want to analyze the 90 seconds [2700 frames] between 00:05:00 and 00:06:30).  The following commands are all thus equivalent in this regard (assuming we are using the content detector):

```rst
scenedetect -i my_video.mp4 time --start 00:05:00 --end 00:06:30
```

```rst
scenedetect -i my_video.mp4 time --start 300s --end 390s
```

```rst
scenedetect -i my_video.mp4 time --start 300s --duration 90s
```

```rst
scenedetect -i my_video.mp4 time --start 300s --duration 2700
```

This demonstrates the different timecode formats, interchanging end time with duration and vice-versa, and precedence of setting duration over end time.


## Config File

A configuration file path can be specified using the `-c`/`--config` argument. PySceneDetect also looks for a config file named `scenedetect.cfg` in one of the following locations:

 * Windows:
     * `C:/Users/%USERNAME%/AppData/Local/PySceneDetect/scenedetect.cfg`

 * Linux:
     * `~/.config/PySceneDetect/scenedetect.cfg`
     * `$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/scenedetect.cfg`

 * Mac:
     * `~/Library/Preferences/PySceneDetect/scenedetect.cfg`

Run `scenedetect help` to see the exact path on your system which will be used (it will be listed under the help text for the -c/--config option).  You can [click here to download a `scenedetect.cfg` config file](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect/v0.6.1-release/scenedetect.cfg) to use as a template. Note that lines starting with a `#` are comments and will be ignored.  The `scenedetect.cfg` template file is also available in the folder where PySceneDetect is installed.

Specifying a config file path using -c/--config overrides the user config file. Specifying values on the command line will override those values in the config file.

The syntax of a configuration file is:

```
[command]
option_a = value
#comment
option_b = 1
```

### Example

```
[global]
default-detector = detect-content
min-scene-len = 0.8s

[detect-content]
threshold = 32
weights = 1.0 0.5 1.0 0.2

[split-video]
preset = slow
rate-factor = 17
# Don't need to use quotes even if filename contains spaces
filename = $VIDEO_NAME-Clip-$SCENE_NUMBER

[save-images]
format = jpeg
quality = 80
num-images = 3
```

See the `scenedetect.cfg` file in the location you installed PySceneDetect or [download it from Github](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect/v0.6.1-release/scenedetect.cfg) for a complete listing of all configuration options.


## <span class="fa fa-keyboard-o"></span>&nbsp; Video Splitting Requirements

PySceneDetect can use either `ffmpeg` or `mkvmerge` to split videos automatically.

By default, when specifying the `split-video` command, `ffmpeg` will be used to split the video.  If the `-c`/`--copy` option is also set (e.g. `split-video --copy`), `mkvmerge` will be used to split the video instead.


### FFmpeg

You can download `ffmpeg` from: [https://ffmpeg.org/download.html](https://ffmpeg.org/download.html)

Note that Linux users should use a package manager (e.g. `sudo apt-get install ffmpeg`). Windows users may require additional steps in order for PySceneDetect to detect `ffmpeg` - see the section Manually Enabling `split-video` Support below for details.


### mkvmerge

You can download and install `mkvmerge` as part of the mkvtoolnix package from:
[https://mkvtoolnix.download/downloads.html](https://mkvtoolnix.download/downloads.html)

Note that Windows users should use the installer/setup, and Linux users should use their system package manager, otherwise PySceneDetect may not be able to find `mkvmerge`.  If this is the case, see the section below to enable support for the `split-video --copy` command manually.


### Enabling `split-video` Support

If PySceneDetect cannot find the respective tool installed on your system, you have three options:

  1. Place the tool in the same location that PySceneDetect is installed (e.g. copy and paste mkvmerge.exe into the same place scenedetect.exe is located).  This is the easiest solution for most users.

  2. Add the directory where you installed ffmpeg/mkvmerge to your system's PATH environment variable, ensuring that you can use the ffmpeg/mkvmerge command from any terminal/command prompt.  This is the best solution for advanced users.

  3. Place the tool in a location already in your system's PATH variable (e.g. C:/Windows).  This is not recommended, but may be the only solution on systems without administrative rights.
