manual/api/migration_guide.rst, before:


.. _scenedetect-migration_guide:

---------------------------------------------------------------
Migration Guide
---------------------------------------------------------------

===============================================================
`VideoManager`
===============================================================

`VideoManager` has been removed and placed with :py:mod:`scenedetect.backends`.  For most applications, the easiest way to update this is to use the :py:func:`open_video <scenedetect.backends.open_video>` function:

.. code:: python

    from scenedetect import open_video
    video = open_video(path='video.mp4')

The resulting object can then be passed to a :py:class:`SceneManager <scenedetect.scene_manager.SceneManager>` when calling :py:meth:`detect_scenes <scenedetect.scene_manager.SceneManager.detect_scenes>`, or any other function/method that used to take a `VideoManager`.

See :py:mod:`scenedetect.backends` for examples of how to create specific backends. Note that where previously a list of paths was accepted, now only a single string should be provided.


===============================================================
`StatsManager`
===============================================================

The :py:func:`save_to_csv <scenedetect.stats_manager.StatsManager.save_to_csv>` and :py:func:`load_from_csv <scenedetect.stats_manager.StatsManager.save_to_csv>` methods now accept either a `path` or an open `file` handle.


===============================================================
`SceneManager`
===============================================================

The first argument of the :py:meth:`detect_scenes <scenedetect.scene_manager.SceneManager.detect_scenes>` method has been renamed to `video` and should now be a :py:class:`VideoStream <scenedetect.video_stream.VideoStream>` object (see above).


===============================================================
`save_images` Parameters
===============================================================

The second argument of :py:func:`save_images <scenedetect.scene_manager.save_images>` in :py:mod:`scenedetect.scene_manager` has been renamed from `video_manager` to `video`.

The `downscale_factor` parameter has been removed from :py:func:`save_images <scenedetect.scene_manager.save_images>` (use the `scale` parameter instead). To achieve the same result as the previous version, set `scale` to `1.0 / downscale_factor`.


===============================================================
`AdaptiveDetector`
===============================================================

The `video_manager` parameter is no longer required when constructing an :py:class:`AdaptiveDetector <scenedetect.detectors.adaptive_detector.AdaptiveDetector>` object.


===============================================================
`MINIMUM_FRAMES_PER_SECOND_*` Constants
===============================================================

In :py:mod:`scenedetect.frame_timecode` the constants `MINIMUM_FRAMES_PER_SECOND_FLOAT` and `MINIMUM_FRAMES_PER_SECOND_DELTA_FLOAT` have been replaced with :py:data:`MAX_FPS_DELTA <scenedetect.frame_timecode.MAX_FPS_DELTA>`.


===============================================================
`split_video_*` Functions
===============================================================

The the :py:mod:`scenedetect.video_splitter` functions :py:func:`split_video_ffmpeg <scenedetect.video_splitter.split_video_ffmpeg>` and :py:func:`split_video_mkvmerge <scenedetect.video_splitter.split_video_mkvmerge>` now only accept a single path as the input (first) argument, where previously it was required to be a list.

The `suppress_output` and `hide_progress` arguments to the :py:func:`split_video_ffmpeg <scenedetect.video_splitter.split_video_ffmpeg>` and :py:func:`split_video_mkvmerge <scenedetect.video_splitter.split_video_mkvmerge>` have been renamed, and have new defaults:

 * `suppress_output` is now `show_output`, default is `False`
 * `hide_progress` is now `show_progress`, default is `False`

This makes the API consistent with that of :py:class:`SceneManager <scenedetect.scene_manager.SceneManager>`.

Commit message:

Change default threshold for ContentDetector (#246).

manual/api/migration_guide.rst, after:


.. _scenedetect-migration_guide:

---------------------------------------------------------------
Migration Guide
---------------------------------------------------------------

This page details how to transition a program written using PySceneDetect v0.5 to the new v0.6 API.

PySceneDetect v0.6 is a major step towards a more stable and simplified API and should better serve most use cases.  The biggest change to most existing workflows should be how video input is handled, and that Python 3.6 or above is now required.  This page should cover the most common use-cases, although it is not exhaustive.  For a complete list of API changes, see `the changelog <https://pyscenedetect.readthedocs.io/en/latest/changelog/>`_.


===============================================================
`VideoManager`
===============================================================

`VideoManager` has been removed and placed with :py:mod:`scenedetect.backends`.  For most applications, the easiest way to update this is to use the :py:func:`open_video <scenedetect.backends.open_video>` function:

.. code:: python

    from scenedetect import open_video
    video = open_video(path='video.mp4')

The resulting object can then be passed to a :py:class:`SceneManager <scenedetect.scene_manager.SceneManager>` when calling :py:meth:`detect_scenes <scenedetect.scene_manager.SceneManager.detect_scenes>`, or any other function/method that used to take a `VideoManager`.

See :py:mod:`scenedetect.backends` for examples of how to create specific backends. Note that where previously a list of paths was accepted, now only a single string should be provided.


===============================================================
`StatsManager`
===============================================================

The :py:func:`save_to_csv <scenedetect.stats_manager.StatsManager.save_to_csv>` and :py:func:`load_from_csv <scenedetect.stats_manager.StatsManager.save_to_csv>` methods now accept either a `path` or an open `file` handle.


===============================================================
`SceneManager`
===============================================================

The first argument of the :py:meth:`detect_scenes <scenedetect.scene_manager.SceneManager.detect_scenes>` method has been renamed to `video` and should now be a :py:class:`VideoStream <scenedetect.video_stream.VideoStream>` object (see above).


===============================================================
`save_images` Parameters
===============================================================

The second argument of :py:func:`save_images <scenedetect.scene_manager.save_images>` in :py:mod:`scenedetect.scene_manager` has been renamed from `video_manager` to `video`.

The `downscale_factor` parameter has been removed from :py:func:`save_images <scenedetect.scene_manager.save_images>` (use the `scale` parameter instead). To achieve the same result as the previous version, set `scale` to `1.0 / downscale_factor`.


===============================================================
`AdaptiveDetector`
===============================================================

The `video_manager` parameter is no longer required when constructing an :py:class:`AdaptiveDetector <scenedetect.detectors.adaptive_detector.AdaptiveDetector>` object.


===============================================================
`MINIMUM_FRAMES_PER_SECOND_*` Constants
===============================================================

In :py:mod:`scenedetect.frame_timecode` the constants `MINIMUM_FRAMES_PER_SECOND_FLOAT` and `MINIMUM_FRAMES_PER_SECOND_DELTA_FLOAT` have been replaced with :py:data:`MAX_FPS_DELTA <scenedetect.frame_timecode.MAX_FPS_DELTA>`.


===============================================================
`split_video_*` Functions
===============================================================

The the :py:mod:`scenedetect.video_splitter` functions :py:func:`split_video_ffmpeg <scenedetect.video_splitter.split_video_ffmpeg>` and :py:func:`split_video_mkvmerge <scenedetect.video_splitter.split_video_mkvmerge>` now only accept a single path as the input (first) argument, where previously it was required to be a list.

The `suppress_output` and `hide_progress` arguments to the :py:func:`split_video_ffmpeg <scenedetect.video_splitter.split_video_ffmpeg>` and :py:func:`split_video_mkvmerge <scenedetect.video_splitter.split_video_mkvmerge>` have been renamed, and have new defaults:

 * `suppress_output` is now `show_output`, default is `False`
 * `hide_progress` is now `show_progress`, default is `False`

This makes the API consistent with that of :py:class:`SceneManager <scenedetect.scene_manager.SceneManager>`.
