dist/package-info.rst, before:


PySceneDetect
==========================================================

Video Scene Cut Detection and Analysis Tool
----------------------------------------------------------

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect/build.yml
   :target: https://github.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect/actions

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/github/release/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect.svg
   :target: https://github.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/status/scenedetect.svg
   :target: https://github.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/scenedetect.svg
   :target: http://pyscenedetect.readthedocs.org/en/latest/copyright/

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect.svg?style=social&label=View%20on%20Github
   :target: https://github.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect

----------------------------------------------------------

Website: https://www.scenedetect.com/

Documentation: https://www.scenedetect.com/docs

Github Repo: https://github.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect/

----------------------------------------------------------

PySceneDetect is a command-line tool and Python library which analyzes a video, looking for scene changes or cuts. PySceneDetect integrates with external tools (e.g. `ffmpeg`, `mkvmerge`) to automatically split the video into individual clips when using the `split-video` command and has several other features.

Install: ``pip install --upgrade scenedetect[opencv]``

Split video via CLI: ``scenedetect -i video.mp4 split-video``

Split video using Python API:

.. code-block:: python

    from scenedetect import detect, AdaptiveDetector, split_video_ffmpeg
    scene_list = detect('my_video.mp4', AdaptiveDetector())
    split_video_ffmpeg('my_video.mp4', scene_list)

----------------------------------------------------------

Licensed under BSD 3-Clause (see the ``LICENSE`` file for details).

Copyright (C) 2014-2024 Brandon Castellano.
All rights reserved.

Commit message:

[docs] Make homepage docs button point to latest
Previously it pointed to the version list, but this makes it harder
to jump into the docs from the homepage. A user can still click on
Documentation from the nav menu to find the page with all versions or
just remove the version from the URL.

Update intro wording to be more concise.

dist/package-info.rst, after:


PySceneDetect
==========================================================

Video Scene Cut Detection and Analysis Tool
----------------------------------------------------------

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/status/scenedetect.svg
   :target: https://github.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/github/release/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect.svg
   :target: https://github.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/scenedetect.svg
   :target: http://pyscenedetect.readthedocs.org/en/latest/copyright/

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect.svg?style=social&label=View%20on%20Github
   :target: https://github.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect

----------------------------------------------------------

Documentation: https://www.scenedetect.com/docs

Github Repo: https://github.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect/

Install: ``pip install --upgrade scenedetect[opencv]``

----------------------------------------------------------

**PySceneDetect** is a tool for detecting shot changes in videos, and can automatically split videos into separate clips.  PySceneDetect is free and open-source software, and has several detection methods to find fast-cuts and threshold-based fades.

For example, to split a video: ``scenedetect -i video.mp4 split-video``

You can also use the Python API (`docs <https://www.scenedetect.com/docs/latest/>`_) to do the same:

.. code-block:: python

    from scenedetect import detect, AdaptiveDetector, split_video_ffmpeg
    scene_list = detect('my_video.mp4', AdaptiveDetector())
    split_video_ffmpeg('my_video.mp4', scene_list)

----------------------------------------------------------

Licensed under BSD 3-Clause (see the ``LICENSE`` file for details).

Copyright (C) 2014-2024 Brandon Castellano.
All rights reserved.
