manual/index.rst, before:

.. PySceneDetect documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Wed Aug 15 21:13:57 2018.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

#######################################################################
PySceneDetect v0.5 Manual
#######################################################################


.. warning::

    The **API reference** (second section) is complete, with more documentation and examples coming soon.

    The CLI documentation is still under development, but nearly complete. To fill in any gaps in the meantime,
    check out the main PySceneDetect page below or visit `py.scenedetect.com <http://py.scenedetect.com>`_.

Note that this manual refers to both the the PySceneDetect
command-line interface (the `scenedetect` command) and the PySceneDetect Python API
(the `scenedetect` module).

Information regarding installing/downloading PySceneDetect or obtaining the latest
release can be found at
`py.scenedetect.com <http://py.scenedetect.com/>`_.

The latest source code for PySceneDetect can always be found on Github at
`github.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect <http://github.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect>`_.


.. note::

     PySceneDetect supports both Python 2.7 and 3.x.
     
     It is suggested to use or migrate to Python 3.x whenever possible,
     as it provides better overall performance.


***********************************************************************
Table of Contents
***********************************************************************



=======================================================================
``scenedetect`` Command Reference
=======================================================================



.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 3
    :caption: Command-Line Interface [CLI]:
    :name: clitoc

    cli/global_options
    cli/detectors
    cli/commands


=======================================================================
``scenedetect`` Python Module
=======================================================================

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 3
    :caption: Python API Documentation:
    :name: apitoc

    api
    api/frame_timecode
    api/video_manager
    api/scene_manager
    api/stats_manager
    api/scene_detector
    api/detectors
    api/video_splitter



Indices and Tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`

Commit message:

Complete draft of v0.5 documentation ready for public review, can be viewed at http://man.scenedetect.com/

manual/index.rst, after:


.. PySceneDetect documentation index file (contains toctree directive).
    Copyright (C) 2018 Brandon Castellano.  All rights reserved.


#######################################################################
PySceneDetect v0.5 Manual
#######################################################################

.. warning::

    This documentation is a draft/beta of the v0.5 documentation prepared for public review.
    If you spot any errors, issues, or discrepencies of any kind, feel free to
    `submit a new issue <https://github.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect/issues/new?template=blank-template.md>`_
    on the `PySceneDetect Issue Tracker <https://github.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect/issues>`_

    This documentation is almost complete, but still under development.  To fill in any gaps in the meantime,
    you can visit the main project page at `py.scenedetect.com <http://py.scenedetect.com>`_.

Note that this manual refers to both the the PySceneDetect
command-line interface (the `scenedetect` command) and the PySceneDetect Python API
(the `scenedetect` module).

Information regarding installing/downloading PySceneDetect or obtaining the latest
release can be found at
`scenedetect.com <http://scenedetect.com/>`_.

The latest source code for PySceneDetect can always be found on Github at
`github.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect <http://github.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect>`_.

.. note::

     PySceneDetect supports both Python 2.7 and 3.x.
     
     It is suggested to use or migrate to Python 3.x whenever possible,
     as it provides better overall performance.


***********************************************************************
Table of Contents
***********************************************************************

=======================================================================
``scenedetect`` Command Reference
=======================================================================

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2
    :caption: Command-Line Interface [CLI]:
    :name: clitoc

    cli/global_options
    cli/detectors
    cli/commands

=======================================================================
``scenedetect`` Python Module
=======================================================================

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 3
    :caption: Python API Documentation:
    :name: apitoc

    api
    api/frame_timecode
    api/video_manager
    api/scene_manager
    api/stats_manager
    api/scene_detector
    api/detectors
    api/video_splitter

Indices and Tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`
