docs/download.md, before:


# Obtaining PySceneDetect

PySceneDetect is completely free software, and can be downloaded from the links below.  See the [license and copyright information](copyright.md) page for details.  If you have trouble running PySceneDetect, ensure that you have all the required dependencies listed in the [Dependencies](#dependencies) section below.

PySceneDetect requires at least Python 3.6 or higher.

## Download and Installation

### Install via pip &nbsp; <span class="wy-text-neutral"><span class="fa fa-windows"></span> &nbsp; <span class="fa fa-linux"></span> &nbsp; <span class="fa fa-apple"></span></span></h3>

<div class="important">
<h4 class="wy-text-neutral"><span class="fa fa-angle-double-down wy-text-info"></span> Including OpenCV (recommended):</h4>
<h3 class="wy-text-neutral"><tt>pip install scenedetect[opencv]</tt></h3>
<h4 class="wy-text-neutral"><span class="fa fa-angle-down wy-text-info"></span> Including Headless OpenCV :</h4>
<h3 class="wy-text-neutral"><tt>pip install scenedetect[opencv-headless]</tt></h3>
</div>

PySceneDetect is available via `pip` as [the `scenedetect` package](https://pypi.org/project/scenedetect/).  See below for instructions on installing a non-pip version of OpenCV.  To ensure you have all the requirements installed, open a `python` interpreter, and ensure you can run `import cv2` without any errors.

### Windows Build (64-bit Only) &nbsp; <span class="wy-text-neutral"><span class="fa fa-windows"></span></span>

<div class="important">
<h3 class="wy-text-neutral"><span class="fa fa-forward wy-text-info"></span> Latest Release: <b class="wy-text-neutral">v0.5.6</b></h3>
<h4 class="wy-text-neutral"><span class="fa fa-calendar wy-text-info"></span>&nbsp; Release Date:&nbsp; <b>August 15, 2021</b></h4>
<a href="https://github.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect/releases/download/v0.5.6/PySceneDetect-0.5.6-win64.exe" class="btn btn-info" style="margin-bottom:8px;" role="button"><span class="fa fa-download"></span>&nbsp; <b>Installer</b>&nbsp;&nbsp;(recommended)</a> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; <a href="https://github.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect/releases/download/v0.5.6/PySceneDetect-0.5.6-win64-portable.zip" class="btn btn-info" style="margin-bottom:8px;" role="button"><span class="fa fa-download"></span>&nbsp; <b>Portable .zip</b></a> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; <a href="../examples/usage/" class="btn btn-success" style="margin-bottom:8px;" role="button"><span class="fa fa-book"></span>&nbsp; <b>Getting Started</b></a>
</div>

### Python Installer (All Platforms) &nbsp; <span class="wy-text-neutral"><span class="fa fa-windows"></span> &nbsp; <span class="fa fa-linux"></span> &nbsp; <span class="fa fa-apple"></span></span></h3>

<div class="important">
<h4 class="wy-text-neutral"><span class="fa fa-forward wy-text-info"></span> Latest Release: <b class="wy-text-neutral">v0.5.6.1</b></h4>
<h4 class="wy-text-neutral"><span class="fa fa-calendar wy-text-info"></span>&nbsp; Release Date:&nbsp; <b>October 11, 2021</b></h4>
<a href="https://github.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect/archive/v0.5.6.1.zip" class="btn btn-info" style="margin-bottom:8px;" role="button"><span class="fa fa-download"></span>&nbsp; <b>Source</b>&nbsp;&nbsp;.zip</a> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; <a href="https://github.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect/archive/v0.5.6.1.tar.gz" class="btn btn-info" style="margin-bottom:8px;" role="button"><span class="fa fa-download"></span>&nbsp; <b>Source</b>&nbsp;&nbsp;.tar.gz</a> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; <a href="../examples/usage/" class="btn btn-success" style="margin-bottom:8px;" role="button"><span class="fa fa-book"></span>&nbsp; <b>Getting Started</b></a>
</div>

To install from source, download and extract the latest release to a location of your choice, and make sure you have the appropriate [system requirements](#dependencies) installed before continuing.  PySceneDetect can be installed by running the following command in the location of the extracted files (don't forget `sudo` if you're installing system-wide):

```md
python setup.py install
```

### Post Installation

After installation, you can call PySceneDetect from any terminal/command prompt by typing `scenedetect` (try running `scenedetect help`, or `scenedetect version`).

To get familiar with PySceneDetect, try running `scenedetect help`, or continue onwards to the [Getting Started: Basic Usage](examples/usage.md) section.  If you encounter any runtime errors while running PySceneDetect, ensure that you have all the required dependencies listed in the System Requirements section above (you should be able to `import numpy` and `import cv2`).  If you encounter any issues or want to make a feature request, feel free to [report any bugs or share some feature requests/ideas](contributing.md) on the [issue tracker](https://github.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect/issues) and help make PySceneDetect even better.


## Dependencies

### Python Packages

PySceneDetect requires [Python 3](https://www.python.org/) and the following packages:

 - [OpenCV](http://opencv.org/) (compatible with 2/3), can install via `pip install opencv-python`. Used for video I/O.
 - [Numpy](https://numpy.org/), can install via `pip install numpy`. Used for frame processing.
 - [Click](https://click.palletsprojects.com), can install via `pip install Click`. Used for command line interface.
 - [tqdm](https://github.com/tqdm/tqdm), can install via `pip install tqdm`. Used to show progress bar and estimated time remaining.

### Video Splitting Tools

For video splitting support, you need to have one of the following tools available:

 - [ffmpeg](https://ffmpeg.org/download.html), required to split video files (`split-video` or `split-video -c/--copy`)
 - [mkvmerge](https://mkvtoolnix.download/), part of mkvtoolnix, command-line tool, required to split video files in stream copy mode (`split-video -c/--copy` only)

Windows/OSX users can obtain them from the above links.  Note that the Windows installer/portable version includes these tools (you can replace the included versions them with newer copies).  Linux users can typically obtain these tools from the system package manager (e.g. `sudo apt-get install ffmpeg`).

The `ffmpeg` and/or `mkvmerge` command must be available system wide (e.g. in a directory in `PATH`, so it can be used from any terminal/console by typing the command), or alternatively, placed in the same directory where PySceneDetect is installed.  On Windows this is usually `C:\PythonXY\Scripts`, where `XY` is your Python version.

If you have trouble getting PySceneDetect to find `ffmpeg` or `mkvmerge`, see the section on Manually Enabling `split-video` Support on [Getting Started: Video Splitting Support Requirements](examples/video-splitting).

If both tools are installed, `ffmpeg` will be used when specifying `split-video -c/--copy`.  You can ensure `mkvmerge` is used by also specifying `--use-mkvmerge`.

### Building OpenCV from Source or Using a Different Version

If you have installed OpenCV using `pip`, you will need to uninstall it before installing a different version of OpenCV, or building and installing it from source.

You can [click here](http://breakthrough.github.io/Installing-OpenCV/) for a quick guide (OpenCV + Numpy on Windows & Linux) on installing OpenCV/Numpy on [Windows (using pre-built binaries)](http://breakthrough.github.io/Installing-OpenCV/#installing-on-windows-pre-built-binaries) and [Linux (compiling from source)](http://breakthrough.github.io/Installing-OpenCV/#installing-on-linux-compiling-from-source).  If the Python module that comes with OpenCV on Windows is incompatible with your system architecture or Python version, [see this page](http://www.lfd.uci.edu/~gohlke/pythonlibs/#opencv) to obtain a pre-compiled (unofficial) module.

To ensure you have all the requirements installed, open a `python` interpreter, and ensure you can run `import numpy` and `import cv2` without any errors.

Commit message:

Add new ConfigParser along with new scenedetect.cfg file.
Values are loaded and validated, but not yet used. #247

docs/download.md, after:


# Obtaining PySceneDetect

PySceneDetect is completely free software, and can be downloaded from the links below.  See the [license and copyright information](copyright.md) page for details.  If you have trouble running PySceneDetect, ensure that you have all the required dependencies listed in the [Dependencies](#dependencies) section below.

PySceneDetect requires at least Python 3.6 or higher.

## Download and Installation

### Install via pip &nbsp; <span class="wy-text-neutral"><span class="fa fa-windows"></span> &nbsp; <span class="fa fa-linux"></span> &nbsp; <span class="fa fa-apple"></span></span></h3>

<div class="important">
<h4 class="wy-text-neutral"><span class="fa fa-angle-double-down wy-text-info"></span> Including OpenCV (recommended):</h4>
<h3 class="wy-text-neutral"><tt>pip install scenedetect[opencv]</tt></h3>
<h4 class="wy-text-neutral"><span class="fa fa-angle-down wy-text-info"></span> Including Headless OpenCV :</h4>
<h3 class="wy-text-neutral"><tt>pip install scenedetect[opencv-headless]</tt></h3>
</div>

PySceneDetect is available via `pip` as [the `scenedetect` package](https://pypi.org/project/scenedetect/).  See below for instructions on installing a non-pip version of OpenCV.  To ensure you have all the requirements installed, open a `python` interpreter, and ensure you can run `import cv2` without any errors.

### Windows Build (64-bit Only) &nbsp; <span class="wy-text-neutral"><span class="fa fa-windows"></span></span>

<div class="important">
<h3 class="wy-text-neutral"><span class="fa fa-forward wy-text-info"></span> Latest Release: <b class="wy-text-neutral">v0.5.6</b></h3>
<h4 class="wy-text-neutral"><span class="fa fa-calendar wy-text-info"></span>&nbsp; Release Date:&nbsp; <b>August 15, 2021</b></h4>
<a href="https://github.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect/releases/download/v0.5.6/PySceneDetect-0.5.6-win64.exe" class="btn btn-info" style="margin-bottom:8px;" role="button"><span class="fa fa-download"></span>&nbsp; <b>Installer</b>&nbsp;&nbsp;(recommended)</a> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; <a href="https://github.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect/releases/download/v0.5.6/PySceneDetect-0.5.6-win64-portable.zip" class="btn btn-info" style="margin-bottom:8px;" role="button"><span class="fa fa-download"></span>&nbsp; <b>Portable .zip</b></a> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; <a href="../examples/usage/" class="btn btn-success" style="margin-bottom:8px;" role="button"><span class="fa fa-book"></span>&nbsp; <b>Getting Started</b></a>
</div>

### Python Installer (All Platforms) &nbsp; <span class="wy-text-neutral"><span class="fa fa-windows"></span> &nbsp; <span class="fa fa-linux"></span> &nbsp; <span class="fa fa-apple"></span></span></h3>

<div class="important">
<h4 class="wy-text-neutral"><span class="fa fa-forward wy-text-info"></span> Latest Release: <b class="wy-text-neutral">v0.5.6.1</b></h4>
<h4 class="wy-text-neutral"><span class="fa fa-calendar wy-text-info"></span>&nbsp; Release Date:&nbsp; <b>October 11, 2021</b></h4>
<a href="https://github.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect/archive/v0.5.6.1.zip" class="btn btn-info" style="margin-bottom:8px;" role="button"><span class="fa fa-download"></span>&nbsp; <b>Source</b>&nbsp;&nbsp;.zip</a> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; <a href="https://github.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect/archive/v0.5.6.1.tar.gz" class="btn btn-info" style="margin-bottom:8px;" role="button"><span class="fa fa-download"></span>&nbsp; <b>Source</b>&nbsp;&nbsp;.tar.gz</a> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; <a href="../examples/usage/" class="btn btn-success" style="margin-bottom:8px;" role="button"><span class="fa fa-book"></span>&nbsp; <b>Getting Started</b></a>
</div>

To install from source, download and extract the latest release to a location of your choice, and make sure you have the appropriate [system requirements](#dependencies) installed before continuing.  PySceneDetect can be installed by running the following command in the location of the extracted files (don't forget `sudo` if you're installing system-wide):

```md
python setup.py install
```

### Post Installation

After installation, you can call PySceneDetect from any terminal/command prompt by typing `scenedetect` (try running `scenedetect help`, or `scenedetect version`).

To get familiar with PySceneDetect, try running `scenedetect help`, or continue onwards to the [Getting Started: Basic Usage](examples/usage.md) section.  If you encounter any runtime errors while running PySceneDetect, ensure that you have all the required dependencies listed in the System Requirements section above (you should be able to `import numpy` and `import cv2`).  If you encounter any issues or want to make a feature request, feel free to [report any bugs or share some feature requests/ideas](contributing.md) on the [issue tracker](https://github.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect/issues) and help make PySceneDetect even better.


## Dependencies

### Python Packages

PySceneDetect requires [Python 3](https://www.python.org/) and the following packages:

 - [OpenCV](http://opencv.org/) (compatible with 2/3), can install via `pip install opencv-python`. Used for video I/O.
 - [Numpy](https://numpy.org/), can install via `pip install numpy`. Used for frame processing.
 - [Click](https://click.palletsprojects.com), can install via `pip install Click`. Used for command line interface.
 - [tqdm](https://github.com/tqdm/tqdm), can install via `pip install tqdm`. Used to show progress bar and estimated time remaining.
 - [appdirs](https://github.com/ActiveState/appdirs), can install via `pip install appdirs`. Used to obtain path correct configuration file path for each platform.

### Video Splitting Tools

For video splitting support, you need to have one of the following tools available:

 - [ffmpeg](https://ffmpeg.org/download.html), required to split video files (`split-video` or `split-video -c/--copy`)
 - [mkvmerge](https://mkvtoolnix.download/), part of mkvtoolnix, command-line tool, required to split video files in stream copy mode (`split-video -c/--copy` only)

Windows/OSX users can obtain them from the above links.  Note that the Windows installer/portable version includes these tools (you can replace the included versions them with newer copies).  Linux users can typically obtain these tools from the system package manager (e.g. `sudo apt-get install ffmpeg`).

The `ffmpeg` and/or `mkvmerge` command must be available system wide (e.g. in a directory in `PATH`, so it can be used from any terminal/console by typing the command), or alternatively, placed in the same directory where PySceneDetect is installed.  On Windows this is usually `C:\PythonXY\Scripts`, where `XY` is your Python version.

If you have trouble getting PySceneDetect to find `ffmpeg` or `mkvmerge`, see the section on Manually Enabling `split-video` Support on [Getting Started: Video Splitting Support Requirements](examples/video-splitting).

If both tools are installed, `ffmpeg` will be used when specifying `split-video -c/--copy`.  You can ensure `mkvmerge` is used by also specifying `--use-mkvmerge`.

### Building OpenCV from Source or Using a Different Version

If you have installed OpenCV using `pip`, you will need to uninstall it before installing a different version of OpenCV, or building and installing it from source.

You can [click here](http://breakthrough.github.io/Installing-OpenCV/) for a quick guide (OpenCV + Numpy on Windows & Linux) on installing OpenCV/Numpy on [Windows (using pre-built binaries)](http://breakthrough.github.io/Installing-OpenCV/#installing-on-windows-pre-built-binaries) and [Linux (compiling from source)](http://breakthrough.github.io/Installing-OpenCV/#installing-on-linux-compiling-from-source).  If the Python module that comes with OpenCV on Windows is incompatible with your system architecture or Python version, [see this page](http://www.lfd.uci.edu/~gohlke/pythonlibs/#opencv) to obtain a pre-compiled (unofficial) module.

To ensure you have all the requirements installed, open a `python` interpreter, and ensure you can run `import numpy` and `import cv2` without any errors.
