docs/features.md, before:


## Overview of Features

<div class="warning">
<h3><span class="fa fa-eye wy-text-neutral"></span>&nbsp; Content-Aware Scene Detection</h3>
&nbsp;<span class="fa fa-info-circle wy-text-info"></span>&nbsp;&nbsp; Detects breaks in-between <i>content</i>, not only when the video fades to black (although a threshold mode is available as well for those cases).
</div>

<div class="important">
<h3><span class="fa fa-desktop wy-text-info"></span>&nbsp; Compatible With Many External Tools</h3>
&nbsp;<span class="fa fa-info-circle wy-text-info"></span>&nbsp;&nbsp; The detected scene boundaries/cuts can be exported in a variety of formats, with the default type (comma-separated HH:MM:SS.nnn values) being ready to copy-and-paste directly into other tools (such as ffmpeg, mkvmerge, etc...) for splitting and/or re-encoding the video.
</div>

<div class="danger">
<h3><span class="fa fa-bar-chart-o wy-text-warning"></span>&nbsp; Statistical Video Analysis</h3>
&nbsp;<span class="fa fa-info-circle wy-text-info"></span>&nbsp;&nbsp; Can output a spreadsheet-compatible file for analyzing trends in a particular video file, to determine the optimal threshold values to use with specific scene detection methods/algorithms. 
</div>

<div class="warning">
<h3><span class="fa fa-code wy-text-danger"></span>&nbsp; Extendible and Embeddable</h3>
&nbsp;<span class="fa fa-info-circle wy-text-info"></span>&nbsp;&nbsp; Written in Python, and designed with an easy-to-use and extendable API, PySceneDetect is ideal for embedding into other programs, or to implement custom methods/algorithms of scene detection for specific applications (e.g. analyzing security camera footage).
</div>


----------------


### Features in Current Release

 - output-suppression (quiet) mode for better automation with external scripts/programs
 - detects fade-in and fade-out based on user-defined threshold
 - exports list of scenes to .CSV file (both timecodes and frame numbers) (-o)
 - exports timecodes in mkvmerge format: HH:MM:SS.nnnnn, comma-separated
 - user-selectable frame skipping for improved performance
 - user-selectable subsampling for improved performance

### List of Scene Detection Methods

 - threshold scene detection analyzes video for changes in average frame intensity/brightness
 - content-aware scene detection based on changes between frames in the HSV color space

For a detailed explanation of how a particular scene detection method/algorithm works, see the [Scene Detection Method Details Section](reference/detection-methods.md) in the Documentation & Reference.


----------------


## Version Roadmap

<h3>Features in Development for Next Version</h3>

The following are features being developed for PySceneDetect **v0.3.2-beta** (completed features - those marked with <span class="fa fa-check"></span>&nbsp; - can be tested by [downloading the latest development version](https://github.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect/archive/master.zip) of the PySceneDetect source code, or cloning the [Github repo](https://github.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect)).  

 - add ability to specify start/end time for scene detection
 - multithreaded implementation of existing scene detection methods/algorithms

<h3>Features Starting Development for Following Version</h3>

The following are features being planned or developed after the release of v0.3.1-beta.

 - statistics/analysis mode to export frame-by-frame video metrics (-s)
 - adaptive or user-defined bias for fade in/out interpolation
 - thumbnail generation for detected scenes
 - additional timecode formats

<h3>Planned Features for Future Releases</h3>

The following are features being planned or developed for the next major release of PySceneDetect, v0.4-beta.

 - export scenes in chapter/XML format
 - improve robustness of content-aware detection by combining with edge detection (similar to MATLAB-based scene change detector)
 - automatic threshold detection for the current scene detection methods (can be done in pre-pass if necessary)
 - standalone distribution/build for Windows (x86/64)
 - GUI for easier previewing and threshold setting (will be GTK+ 3 based via PyGObject)

Commit message:

Completed timecode_type_check and added new CLI arguments for start/end/duration of video processing.

docs/features.md, after:


## Overview of Features

<div class="warning">
<h3><span class="fa fa-eye wy-text-neutral"></span>&nbsp; Content-Aware Scene Detection</h3>
&nbsp;<span class="fa fa-info-circle wy-text-info"></span>&nbsp;&nbsp; Detects breaks in-between <i>content</i>, not only when the video fades to black (although a threshold mode is available as well for those cases).
</div>

<div class="important">
<h3><span class="fa fa-desktop wy-text-info"></span>&nbsp; Compatible With Many External Tools</h3>
&nbsp;<span class="fa fa-info-circle wy-text-info"></span>&nbsp;&nbsp; The detected scene boundaries/cuts can be exported in a variety of formats, with the default type (comma-separated HH:MM:SS.nnn values) being ready to copy-and-paste directly into other tools (such as ffmpeg, mkvmerge, etc...) for splitting and/or re-encoding the video.
</div>

<div class="danger">
<h3><span class="fa fa-bar-chart-o wy-text-warning"></span>&nbsp; Statistical Video Analysis</h3>
&nbsp;<span class="fa fa-info-circle wy-text-info"></span>&nbsp;&nbsp; Can output a spreadsheet-compatible file for analyzing trends in a particular video file, to determine the optimal threshold values to use with specific scene detection methods/algorithms. 
</div>

<div class="warning">
<h3><span class="fa fa-code wy-text-danger"></span>&nbsp; Extendible and Embeddable</h3>
&nbsp;<span class="fa fa-info-circle wy-text-info"></span>&nbsp;&nbsp; Written in Python, and designed with an easy-to-use and extendable API, PySceneDetect is ideal for embedding into other programs, or to implement custom methods/algorithms of scene detection for specific applications (e.g. analyzing security camera footage).
</div>


----------------


### Features in Current Release

 - output-suppression (quiet) mode for better automation with external scripts/programs
 - detects fade-in and fade-out based on user-defined threshold
 - exports list of scenes to .CSV file (both timecodes and frame numbers) (`-o`)
 - exports timecodes in mkvmerge format: HH:MM:SS.nnnnn, comma-separated
 - user-selectable frame skipping for improved performance
 - user-selectable subsampling for improved performance
 - save an image of the first and last frame of each detected scene
 - ability to specify starting/ending times (`-st`/`-et`), and/or set duration for processing (`-dt`)

### List of Scene Detection Methods

 - threshold scene detection analyzes video for changes in average frame intensity/brightness
 - content-aware scene detection based on changes between frames in the HSV color space

For a detailed explanation of how a particular scene detection method/algorithm works, see the [Scene Detection Method Details Section](reference/detection-methods.md) in the Documentation & Reference.


----------------


## Version Roadmap

<h3>Features in Development for Next Version</h3>

The following are features being developed for PySceneDetect **v0.3.3-beta** (completed features - those marked with <span class="fa fa-check"></span>&nbsp; - can be tested by [downloading the latest development version](https://github.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect/archive/master.zip) of the PySceneDetect source code, or cloning the [Github repo](https://github.com/Breakthrough/PySceneDetect)).  

 - add ability to specify start/end time for scene detection
 - multithreaded implementation of existing scene detection methods/algorithms

<h3>Features Starting Development for Following Version</h3>

The following are features being planned or developed after the release of v0.3.3-beta.

 - statistics/analysis mode to export frame-by-frame video metrics (-s)
 - adaptive or user-defined bias for fade in/out interpolation
 - additional timecode formats

<h3>Planned Features for Future Releases</h3>

The following are features being planned or developed for the next major release of PySceneDetect, v0.4-beta.

 - export scenes in chapter/XML format
 - improve robustness of content-aware detection by combining with edge detection (similar to MATLAB-based scene change detector)
 - automatic threshold detection for the current scene detection methods (can be done in pre-pass if necessary)
 - standalone distribution/build for Windows (x86/64)
 - GUI for easier previewing and threshold setting (will be GTK+ 3 based via PyGObject)
